Alright, so let's talk about removing items
from a list. So we're going to modify our
program to allow the customer to change
their mind, and remove items from their
list. Our program's a bit limited
because we're not using a GUI interface.
Most likely our customer would be using
their browser to purchase parts, and
would have a drop-down to indicate how
many of each item they want. So bear in
mind that we're learning how to
manipulate lists here - we're not learning
how to write an online shopping cart.
Having said that, though, the code for an
online cart would contain all the
techniques that we're using here. So the
code we need to change, is this code on
lines 18 through 21.
When we get to that if block, we know
which part the customer's chosen. At the
moment we add that part. What we want to
do, is check first to see if the part's
already in their list. Let's have a go at
doing that. So basically, under line 20
here, we're going to type if chosen
underscore part is in computer underscore
parts : I'm just going to put a
comment there for the moment to say, it's
already in, so remove it, and we'll leave
line 23 as is. Now ignore the error on
line 22 at the moment - we saw that before
in an earlier video. If you want to you
could add a pass statement to fix that
error - I'll just add a pass statement for
now. All right, so how do we actually
remove an item from a list. Well let's go
back to that table that we looked at
previously. If we scroll down and have a
look here, you can see we've got a remove
method. We tell it which item to remove
and it removes it from the list. Now
it's always worth reading any notes when
you're checking how to use functions and
methods. The remove method has Note 3
in the last column, and you can see there
under notes: raises ValueError when X is
not found in s. So in other words, we'll
get an error if the item isn't in the
list. So that's something just to be
aware of. Later in the course, we'll see
how to handle errors like that. In this
case we don't have to worry about it,
and that's because - and I'll switch back to
the code here -
on line 21, we've already checked to see
if the part is in the list. So that means
we can safely remove it without worrying
about getting an error. Alright, so
let's replace this pass statement with
the actual code, which will be computer
underscore parts dot remove, and in
parentheses, chosen underscore part. Okay,
so if the chosen part isn't in the list
then we want to add that, and we can do
that by putting line 24 inside an else
block. So we're gonna go ahead and do
that - else : then on the next line, come
back over here and indent that correctly,
and that's all we need to do. It would be
nice, though, to remind our customer of
what's in their list, though, so I'm going
to add a line and print the list out, and
I'll do that outside of that block. So
I'm going to type print, in parentheses,
double quotes Your list now contains :
left and right curly braces dot format,
and in parentheses, computer
underscore parts, and the two closing
right parentheses there. Now be careful
over the indentation for line 26. We want
to print it out whether the customer
added or removed an item, which means it
mustn't be indented inside the else
block, and you can see in my case that
it's not. Alright, so I'm gonna run the
program now and see how it behaves.
I'll add option one first, a computer, then
option two for a monitor. You can see
that each time I'm doing that, we get the new
item list printed out. Now it turns out
that I've got a spare monitor kicking
about, so I'm going to use option two
again now, to remove the monitor from the
list. The list now only contains
computer, so that's working well. It did
say it was adding to when it really
meant removing it, though. But we can
tidy that up by cutting line 18 out, and
I'll exit out of the program first. So what
we want to do there, is cut out line 18,
entirely, and we want to put it inside
the else statements are down here,
because this is the code that's executed
when we add an item. But let's also take
the opportunity here as well, paste it in
here as well, and instead of Adding,
we're gonna change that to Removing.
Alright so let's run the program again - run it
exactly the same as we did before: one,
computer, two, monitor and you get Adding each
time. We'll add, this time we'll remove
the monitor again, two, says Removing
two, our list now only contains computer,
and we'll exit out of it. Alright.
So that's how you can append items to a
list and remove items from it. The append
method is used to add new items. If you
add the same item again then the list
will contain it twice. Lists don't check that
the item that they contain are unique.
The remove method removes items from a
list, and if the item you want to remove
doesn't exist, you'll get an error. So I'm
going to leave the other operations that
you can perform on mutable sequences for
now. In the next video, we'll turn our
attention on how to sort a list.
See you in the next video.